+++
date = 2021-04-10T09:31:44Z
title = "Metamorphosis"

+++
Butterflies are beautiful creatures, they go from a larva to a beautiful and colorful creature that’s able to fly. The transformative change from a larva to a butterfly is called metamorphosis. Humans have long been fascinated by metamorphosis and have hoped humans could do the same. Most people would say that humans can’t perform metamorphosis. In the physical sense, they’re probably right, from what I know we can’t go into a cocoon and grow a set of wings. But have you ever heard or seen a person achieve transformative change? Every day people are experiencing transformative change which can be noticed in their appearance, eyes, energy, and even on a cellular level.

Most things, as complicated as they seem, can be broken down into simple principles, formulas, and equations. Because human metamorphosis is not the same as for a butterfly we need to first look at what human metamorphosis is and what happens. Thereafter we look at the core piece for metamorphosis which is identity. With that, we can then look at how we can change and transform ourselves.

It’s probably clear for most of us that the metamorphosis of a butterfly is not exactly available to humans. We can’t get in a cocoon and grow a set of wings. Most animals, if not all, evolved with a set pattern of behaviors. They all act very similar or even identical. Humans evolved to take over the planet because we don’t have a set pattern of behaviors like an animal. The reason being is that we evolved with a powerful brain that could adapt to different situations. Although our brains haven’t fundamentally changed for thousands of years our brains do have the capability of changing. This is what makes each human unique, each and every one of our brains is wired slightly differently. And unlike an animal, we have a superior ability to change our own patterns of behavior. The proof for our brains being able to change is that we can learn and start doing completely new things and that two people can see completely different opportunities looking at the same thing. When a human undergoes metamorphosis they change the connections in their brain which in turn changes their behavior which in turn changes their energies and ability.

One of the core pieces of human metamorphosis is our identity. Our identity is going to determine our long-term behavior. If you identify as a fit person, then you’re going to take actions and perform behaviors in alignment with a fit person. If you then do something out of alignment with your identity you won’t do it for long because you’ll feel emotional dissonance. To change yourself you, therefore, need to change your identity.

Changing your identity is like stacking rocks on a set of scales, whichever side has the most rocks, that’s what we will believe. If you want to change your identity you need to stop stacking rocks on your current identity, and then start stacking rocks on your desired identity. You stack rocks with what you imagine and think about in your mind and the behavior you perform. The best and most consistent way I’ve found to change is to start tiny. By starting tiny you allow yourself to get quick wins which build momentum and perpetuates a positive feedback loop.

Within no time you’ll have achieved the change and metamorphosis you desire and be on a positive trajectory. You’ll now be able to just like a larva perform metamorphosis to become a butterfly. Your choice is now to decide what type of butterfly you want to become and stack the odds in your favor. If you want personalized and guided assistance to achieve your own metamorphosis, you can schedule a free strategy session with me and we can help you overcome procrastination, achieve peak performance, and become awesome.

Until next time!