+++
date = 2021-04-17T08:11:47Z
title = "Momentum"

+++
Most if not all people want some sort of change. Often the change most people aim for is a big radical change or a highly transformative one. And they want that change now! They have their current situation and their desired situation and the gap might be big. Maybe it’s to go from no income to creating a $10k/mo business. Or maybe it’s to go from 65kg to 75kg of muscle or maybe lose 5kg of fat. The gap is big and they want to have bridged it yesterday. Yet most people also fail to bridge that gap.

The way you bridge the gap between who you are and who you want to be is through human metamorphosis. But even if you have the right approach you will likely fail by biting off too much at the same time. Therefore the real way to bridge the gap is to combine the skill of metamorphosis with momentum.

Metamorphosis is an amazing transformation where a larva turns into a beautiful butterfly. Humans have long been amazed at this transformation and wished that humans were capable of something equally amazing. Although humans can’t physically transform themselves and grow wings like a butterfly. We are capable of creating transformative change. We achieve this transformative change using our minds. And the best thing is that we aren’t limited to doing it just once like a butterfly.

Most people trying to achieve transformative change aren’t following the rules of metamorphosis. When most people attempt to change they try growing into who they want to become while still remaining who they are. Imagine a larva trying to become a butterfly, it isn’t possible for it to remain a larva and be a butterfly at the same time. By becoming a butterfly the larva lets go of itself as a larva and transforms itself into a beautiful butterfly. As humans, we need to do the same if we wish to change.

It takes a larva 9-14 days to become a butterfly. In the same way, we can’t expect to go from our current self to our desired self overnight. All change is a process, and all processes can be speeded up. One of the most powerful ways to speed things up is using the principle of momentum. Momentum is a bit like getting a train moving. It’s hard and slow to get the train moving but as it gains speed it gets increasingly difficult to slow down and stop. While in motion the train only needs a little topping of energy to keep moving at the same speed. Of course, humans aren’t trains, but this illustrates the power of momentum. Momentum works because of the compounding effect.

Another way to view your change is to use the metaphor of a combustion car. A combustion engine works through a feedback loop of tiny controlled explosions. There’s no one big explosion that gets the car moving. It’s the consistent tiny explosions of the spark plugs that get your car rolling and increasing in speed. As a driver, it’s your job to decide how much speed you want and where to steer the car. Within your own change process, you want to achieve the same thing. Instead of going for one big-time action that would not move your car much, you instead want to start with tiny actions that work consistently to move you forward. Each tiny action is the equivalent of a tiny explosion in a combustion engine. Through consistent tiny action, you’ll build momentum compounded on the action before it, gaining you enormous amounts of speed.

Momentum works because it follows Newton's First Law of Inertia, an object in motion will stay in motion unless acted upon by an outside force. What’s easier for you, to lift 4 tons in one go or to do a 30-minute workout with combined lifted weight equalling 4 tons? Most likely the latter. The same way you achieve a transformational change. Instead of trying to achieve your change in one big lift or explosion, you instead consistently add tiny action and small explosions to build up momentum which then becomes easy to maintain. Naturally, your actions will grow and become bigger to compound into more momentum, results, and transformational change. If you want to speed up your own transformational change, overcome procrastination, or take massive action I am offering a free strategy session where we get on a call together and I’ll help you in the right direction. Until next time.