+++
date = 2021-03-13T08:01:33Z
draft = true
title = "Physiology"

+++
The quality of your life is determined by your habitual states. In a previous post, I went through the concept of state management. In that post I defined the way you feel at any moment in time is determined by the state you’re currently in. There are two factors that control your state, physiology, and focus (psychology). The best part is that both these factors are completely controlled by internal forces within you. It’s essential that we control our physiology and focus as it determines the state we’re in. The reason controlling our state is essential is because the way we perform in any given moment is determined by the state we’re currently in. E.g. Do you behave the same when you’re feeling frustrated vs feeling like you’re on a roll?

Physiology is one of the two ways that control our state and today we’ll dive deeper into the topic and show how physiology can help you feel energized and great. To understand how physiology affects your body we will need to understand how the brain and nervous system play apart to determine how we feel, how most people already control their physiology in destructive ways, and what we can do to change our physiology in empowering ways to create passion and achieve breakthroughs in all areas of life.

We begin by looking at how we feel anything. Everything we feel is felt through the nervous system. The way we move our bodies sends signals through the nervous system to our brain which produces responses that determine how we feel. Take feeling depressed, in order to feel depressed, you have to use your body in a depressing way that sends signals to the brain where chemical responses are created that make us feel depressed. If you remain in a depressed movement for long enough it will become habitualized, and then you experience chronic depression. In your mind, picture a depressed person. Is the picture you see a person who’s lying in bed, sitting, or standing hunched with a frown on their face with their head down? Or do you see someone who’s standing tall, smiling, and radiating with vitality? My guess is your thinking something along the lines of the former. This shows that by radically changing movements in your body you can radically change your state.

The way we move is not the only way to change our physiology. Drugs, alcohol, cigarettes, and food are in today’s society common ways to change our states and in the way we feel. The way they’re able to change our physiology is by changing our biochemistry. When we abuse substances we feel good in the short term through a dopamine spike, but in the long-term, we know how destructive they are.

The number one way to change the way you feel is by changing the way you move. The reason being is that by moving you become energy in motion, and in turn feel an emotion. Therefore emotion is created by motion. The way you move your body changes our state, but it’s not the only way we can change our state through physiology. Changing your breathing is another great way, sleep quality and how well-rested also greatly affect our states. The foods we eat and how much highly affect our states, the way we move our facial muscles change the way we feel. These are examples of ways to control your state through physiology. If you radically change any one of the above you radically change your body which in turn creates a radical change in your state. Before you finish reading this post I want you to put it into action. Let’s do this together. Stand up tall with a straight back, common! I’m there with you! Stand up, take a deep full breath in your belly, keep breathing, look up to the sky or ceiling, keep that back straight, shoulders back, and now put a big grin on your face. Now keep this for a minute and feel the energy build up.

Don’t look down yet!

Welcome back! Do you feel a state change? Again, by creating a radical change in your body you create a radical change in your state. One amazing state for you to be in is the state of passion. Out of a state of passion, you can create anything. To stay in a state of passion you need to remove the destructive forces and add the empowering, energy-producing, and passion-creating forces and movements, by being in a passionate state you’ll be able to create countless breakthroughs. If you want guidance to feel energized and great consistently, to improve your life, to achieve breakthroughs, grow your business, grow yourself, break bad habits, or create good habits, reach out to me and we can work together to achieve the change you desire out of life. See you in my next post.